# GrappleGame

After seeing and falling in love with grappling hook mechanics in games I too wanted to take a stab and recreating the beloved mechanic myself. As someone who's played a fair amount of platformers, I already had an Idea of what sort of mechanics should be added for a good movement system. Jump buffers for inputs right before touching ground and Cyote time for as you leave it were a must for avoiding "stolen" inputs. Next I wanted responsive movement, but a flat velocity towards where you moved felt jarring. I compromised with fast acelleration that capped off quickly and fast decelleration so the ground wasn't Ice but wasn't rubber either while allowing for momentum to be mantained while airborn for grappling. With the hook being added I initially thought about using ridged bodies and joints but that quickly feel appart when it struggled to meet my movemnt specifications so I had to get creative. Eventually I landed on a system where a line from terrain to player was made where momentum was shifted to be parallel to this line. Some tweeks later like a constant pull towards the grapple location and movement was complete! Some additional code for an intuitve camera which adjusted to the cursor and the demo was complete!

# The Current State?

This project since completion has been on the bench for awhile. I feel like I created one of the most satisfying movement systems yet I didn't know what kind of world to contextulize it in. The strong foundation is there but adding in the levels and other mechanics that would synergize was a task I wasn't prepared for at the time.
